the Israeli military has rescued four
Israeli hostages alive from Gaza one
woman and three men were freed amid
heavy air strikes from two different
locations in central Gaza Noah aramani
seen here is among the
four she and the others are set to be in
stable condition they've all been taken
to hospitals in Israel for further
medical examinations Hamas kidnapped all
of them from the Nova Music Festival
during its terror attack on October
7th a short time ago an Israeli Army
spokesman had this to say about the
rescue
operation this morning at 11:00 a.m.
Israeli Special Forces conducted complex
hostage Rescue Mission and successfully
rescued four of our hostages from Kamas
captivity in Gaza no gamani almog Mayan
schom and Andre
kov they are back home in Israel they
are alive they are
well they will under they will undergo
medical examination and will soon be re
reunited with their families in the
hospital we're joined Now by our
correspondent in Jerusalem Tanya Kramer
Tanya good to see you I imagine it's an
incredibly emotional day for Israelis
and especially for the families of the
rescued hostages how is this news being
received within the
country well I think you're right I mean
this is an incredible uh emotional day
there's a lot of Joy um uh and also you
know you have to understand Israel has
been in agony over uh the hostages uh
that are remaining uh in Gaza and of
course uh this rescue operation uh
carried out and in broad daylight in new
sad that is in central Gaza now we are
hearing from the military spokesperson
there earlier he gave some more details
that this was in preparation for weeks
as he has said uh with many uh uh
different units uh involved uh those uh
four hostages were uh kept in two
different locations they were extracted
from there and then flown by a
helicopter to uh the hospital in uh uh
to the Sheba Hospital in uh Tel aiv
where they are now and we're seeing here
of course in the past hours images from
that hospital in um um on on the Israeli
channels um we've seen also Noah aamani
there she was talking uh on the phone to
prime minister Benjamin and Netanyahu
now we understand that they are all in
reasonably good health they are
undergoing of course more checks they
have been
reunited uh with uh their families but
it's certainly a very very important day
here because this week had started on
Monday actually with the announcement by
the Israeli military that four more
hostages uh were uh presumed Dead uh in
Gaza and now uh a couple of days later
finally uh some good news for the family
members and the relatives uh of those
four hostages uh that they uh were
rescued now after almost 9 months in
captivity well indeed I imagine that
Israelis have been hungry for some sort
of good news to date just three other
hostages have been rescued in more than
8 months of Israel's military operations
in Gaza Tanya do you think today's
rescue will somehow boost public support
for the war and possibly even for prime
minister Netanyahu
himself well it might give him some
respire from all the international and
all the domestic pressure he has been
under especially the past couple of days
because there is an agreement for a
ceasefire that also includes the release
of hostages on the table and both sides
Hamas and Israel have so far not really
uh agreed uh to this uh latest proposal
and he has been under a lot of pressure
because publicly I mean a majority you
could say of the Israeli public wants to
see uh uh that those that this agreement
is being done uh but uh
prime minister Benyamin netan is also
under pressure from his own cabinet and
he himself has kept on saying that only
maximum pressure will bring the results
so this is kind of you know supporting
him in his military strategy uh to say
uh there will be no end uh to this war
but we also uh have heard from uh the uh
from Benny guns a former Defense
Minister who's a member of the war
cabinet he was actually uh supposedly
giving a conference tonight and was
expected that he might actually quit uh
the uh War cabinet that press conference
has now been uh postponed so you could
say maybe this pressure will at least uh
for the time being be a bit less but
still there 120 hostages still being
held in Gaza and these rescue missions
have been very rare so I think you know
the reading here in Israel is at least
that there needs to be some kind of
agreement to bring all these hostages
back home well meanwhile Hamas Health
authorities say a large number of people
were killed uh amid these heavy air
strikes to rescue the hostages I mean
the area where this operation took place
in Central Gaza is the site of a refugee
camp Tanya what do we know about the
situation
there well absolutely uh when those news
broke I mean uh first that um you know
the Israeli Army I said they carrying
out intensive uh strikes air strikes and
an intensive uh operation in nerat
refugee camp now this is in central Gaza
this is also an area where a lot of
Palestinians that had fled or had been
ordered to go south by the military had
now gone back because of the offensive
uh taking place in rafar it's a very
crowded area and after nine months of
War we all know the situation in Gaza is
extremely difficult for civilians now
we're hearing that there were reports of
many injured and killed being taken into
the hospital one of the few hospitals
that's actually still somehow working in
d balar which is south of narat and the
Ministry of Health there said that at
least 55 people were killed it doesn't
distinguish between militants and
civilians but there's also a lot of
footage out on social media of the
devastating footage I have to say about
the aftermath uh of uh that strike that
it's showing that our hospitals there
are struggling with the influx of
injured and of course these are very
contrasting pictures that we are seeing
that coming out of Gaza with those
devastating scenes uh once again and of
course uh the joy and um you know the
the development this this positive
development uh bringing those four
hostages home uh that we're seeing uh in
Israel DW's Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
for us Tanya we appreciate your
reporting thank you so much